README.md, before:

# Algorithms to Improve Fairness in Medicare Risk Adjustment

This repository contains analytic code for the paper "Algorithms to Improve Fairness in Medicare Risk Adjustment" by Marissa Reitsma, Thomas McGuire, and Sherri Rose (2025), [medRxiv:10.1101/2025.01.25.25321057](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.01.25.25321057v1).

Medicare data contain protected health information and cannot be accessed without IRB approval and a Research Identifiable File (RIF) Data Use Agreement with CMS. As a result, no data are made available in this repository, but the code should allow for replication by reserachers with access to the Medicare RIF data.

Our code is written in R version 4.0.3, and we use renv to facilitate reproducibility. To run the entire pipeline including cross-validation, we used a `n1-highmem-96` instance on Google Cloud.

First, we pre-process Medicare data to create our analytic cohorts. Details and SQL queries are [available](sql). To initialize the file structure, first set your base path in `.Renviron` as `MEDICARE_DATA_PATH = "<base_directory>"`. Then run `setup_directories.R` to create the raw data directory and intermediate output directory. Both of these directories will contain protected health information. Next, transfer data pre-processed Medicare data from the google cloud storage bucket to the raw data directory using `gsutil -m cp -r gs://medicare_rif/Raw/<year>/ <data_dir>` in the terminal. Before running the analytic code, prepare R to run Python using reticulate: 1) ensure Python 3.7 is installed `(reticulate::install_python(version = '3.7'))`, and 2) ensure requirements are isntalled `reticulate::virtualenv_create("medicare_risk_adjustment", requirements = "requirements.txt", version = "3.7")`. Finally, to execute the analysis, run [`00_run.R`](R/00_run.R).

Commit message:

Add JAMA HF + policy brief links

README.md, after:

# Algorithms to Improve Fairness in Medicare Risk Adjustment

This repository contains analytic code for the paper "Algorithms to Improve Fairness in Medicare Risk Adjustment" by Marissa Reitsma, Thomas McGuire, and Sherri Rose (2025), *JAMA Health Forum*. [[Link]](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama-health-forum/fullarticle/2837998) [[Policy Brief]](https://hai.stanford.edu/policy/increasing-fairness-in-medicare-payment-algorithms)

Medicare data contain protected health information and cannot be accessed without IRB approval and a Research Identifiable File (RIF) Data Use Agreement with CMS. As a result, no data are made available in this repository, but the code should allow for replication by reserachers with access to the Medicare RIF data.

Our code is written in R version 4.0.3, and we use renv to facilitate reproducibility. To run the entire pipeline including cross-validation, we used a `n1-highmem-96` instance on Google Cloud.

First, we pre-process Medicare data to create our analytic cohorts. Details and SQL queries are [available](sql). To initialize the file structure, first set your base path in `.Renviron` as `MEDICARE_DATA_PATH = "<base_directory>"`. Then run `setup_directories.R` to create the raw data directory and intermediate output directory. Both of these directories will contain protected health information. Next, transfer data pre-processed Medicare data from the google cloud storage bucket to the raw data directory using `gsutil -m cp -r gs://medicare_rif/Raw/<year>/ <data_dir>` in the terminal. Before running the analytic code, prepare R to run Python using reticulate: 1) ensure Python 3.7 is installed `(reticulate::install_python(version = '3.7'))`, and 2) ensure requirements are isntalled `reticulate::virtualenv_create("medicare_risk_adjustment", requirements = "requirements.txt", version = "3.7")`. Finally, to execute the analysis, run [`00_run.R`](R/00_run.R).
